docs(get-started): new simplified onboarding flow (#4029)
kubeshop/tracetest: docs/docs/getting-started/automate-test-runs.mdx

---

You know how to:

- Create and run a test.
- Generate a trace for every test. 
- Create assertions.

The only thing left is to automate test runs. You can do this:

- [Natively with Synthetic Monitors](/concepts/monitors)
- [With CI/CD Integrations](/ci-cd-automation/overview)
- [With SDKs](/tools-and-integrations/typescript)
- [With Test Tool Integrations](/tools-and-integrations/overview)

## Automate Test Runs with Synthetic Monitors

This guide explains how to create a Synthetic Monitor that triggers a test every 5 minutes.

A Synthetic Monitor consists of:

- Name
- Enabled flag (`true`/`false`)
- List of tests
- Schedule (cronjob syntax)
- List of alerts

## List of Tests

You can define any number of tests to run on a schedule as part of a Synthetic Monitor.

## Schedule

Use a cronjob syntax or the Web UI dropdown to configure the schedule when the Synthetic Monitor will run.

## List of Alerts

You can define any number of webhooks to send alerts to. This enables integrating with your favorite alerting tools.

## Create Synthetic Monitors in Two Ways

1. Programmatically, in YAML
2. Visually, in the Web UI

## Create Synthetic Monitors Programatically in YAML

> Using the test you added assertions to in the previous section, you can refernce it in the resource defintion for a Synthetic Monitor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the test you added assertions to in the previous section, you can reference it in the resource definition for a Synthetic Monitor.
```

```yaml
type: Monitor
spec:
  name: Import Pokemon Monitor
  enabled: true
  tests:
  - ./import-pokemon.yaml
  schedule:
    cron: "*/5 * * * *"
  alerts:
  - id: slack-webhook-message
    type: webhook
    webhook:
      body: "{\n \"text\": \"Monitor ${.Monitor.Name} has failed, follow the link to find the <${.URL}|results>\"\n}"
      method: POST
      url: <your-webhook-url>
      headers:
      - key: Content-Type
        value: application/json
    events:
    - FAILED
```

### The Synthetic Monitor You Defined

1. Runs the `import-pokemon.yaml` test.

> 2. It has a schedule of every 5 minutes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Has a schedule of every 5 minutes.
```

> 3. It will send a webhook alert to Slack when the test fails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Sends a webhook alert to Slack when the test fails.
```
